The earliest challenges that inhibited building a data lake were keeping track
of all the raw assets as they were loaded into the data lake,
and then tracking all of the new data assets and versions
that were created by data transformation,
data processing, and analytics,
thus an essential component of an Amazon S3-based
Data Lake is in the data catalog.
In this section, we'll look a little closer at data catalog versioning.
This screenshot shows the Glue Data Catalog's interface,
highlighting the versioning feature of the AWS Glue Data Catalog.
Near the bottom of the screenshot is a section with the title Schema.
At the top-right, you can see the button that reads Stop comparing.
In the lower section under Schema,
you can see that the data catalog is comparing schema versions
for the same table as version 0 and version 1.
It shows the comparison of these versions,
where any differences are highlighted in red or green.
The ability to compare versions in case of errors is an
important feature of the Glue Data Catalog.
Not only can you do comparisons between versions,
but you also can completely roll back to any previous version if you need to.
The next module is primarily a demo module,
where we build everything in regard to AWS Glue. See you there.